>> Jason Lengstorf: To actually use this,
we want to be able to modify
the title of our site.
So we have to do a couple of
pieces of boilerplate first.
And what we're going to
do is get back in here,
we're gonna stop our server,
and then I'm going to install
gatsby-plugin-react-helmet and
react-helmet.
So React Helmet is a library for modifying
the head of an HTML document in React.
It allows us to set the title, meta tags,
if you wanted to do Open Graph
descriptions or Twitter Cards,
you would set those in here.
It's also how you can set the language
attribute on your HTML tag.
And a whole bunch of other things that
are really good for making accessible and
full-featured SEO friendly websites.
So let's get those installed.
I guess I actually need to install them.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
now that we have these installed,
I'm going to get back into
the config file here.
And I just need to add
gatsby-plugin-react-helmet.
This is so that we can do server
side rendering with Helmet.
But again,
you shouldn't have to configure that,
you shouldn't have to
worry about it at all.
So you add the plugin and
you're off to the races.
Next, we can go back into our layout file,
and
our layout file is also going
to be where we set our SEO.
So I'm going to import
Helmet from react-helmet,
and,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Let's get into,
let's see, where are we gonna put this?
How about right below our global styles?
So I'm gonna set Helmet, and
let's add a language attribute for
accessibility,
>> Jason Lengstorf: I'm
also going to add a title.
And right now, we don't have
access to that GraphQL yet, so
let's just make sure that this works.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And then we also
wanna add a meta name description,
and the content will be site description.
So we need to actually load this data, but
for now, we just wanna make sure
that this is doing what we expected.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So let's save that.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
now when I restart the server,
>> Jason Lengstorf: What we'll see is
that,
>> Jason Lengstorf: Now we get a title.
And if inspect the head, I can also
see that the lang attribute is set,
and we've got the title here.
And let's poke down,
there it is, the description, so
our description is showing up as well.
So everything that we wanted
to happen is showing up, but
it's not using the data that we
added to our site config yet.
So there are lot of ways
that we can get this data.
The easiest one is to
just grab this out as is.
And I'm gonna create a convenience method.
Now, in a typical website,
you'd probably end up using the site
metadata in a bunch of places.
Because this is a pretty
limited scale app, we're not.
But I'm still gonna show you the
abstraction because it's really useful.
I'm gonna write a React Hook.
So I'm gonna create a folder called hooks.
And in, it I'm going to
create use-sitemetadata.js.
And the Hook that we wanna use is
actually not gonna use any React at all.
So this is kind of a fun thing to do.
Instead, we're going to import GraphQL and
a Gatsby Hook called
useStaticQuery from Gatsby.
Let me hide that so
we can see what's going on.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
then we're gonna define our Hook, so
useSiteMetadata, doesn't
take any arguments.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And what we're
going to do is we're gonna just create
a variable.
>> Student: You've got a typo
there on useSiteMetadata.
>> Jason Lengstorf: Metadata,
okay, perfect.
So we have a useStaticQuery.
And then inside of useStaticQuery,
we're gonna write a GraphQL query.
So we use Gatsby's GraphQL template tag,
and
then we can just paste in that
query that we already wrote.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And the data that
comes back is just gonna be an object that
matches this structure.
So basically this becomes the JSON object.
So we're gonna have
data.site.siteMetadata.title.
For convenience, we don't wanna have to
type data.site.siteMetadata every time,
we just wanna return the metadata.
So we can return data.site.siteMetadata.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And
now we can export default useSiteMetadata.
then in our layout,
>> Jason Lengstorf: We can grab that Hook,
so import useSiteMetadata
from hooks/use-sitemetadata.
And then we're gonna have to
refactor this a little bit.
Right now we're using the implicit return,
that's what this parentheses is for.
So I'm going to just highlight the whole
thing, wrap it in a curly brace,
and then we're gonna return, down here.
And then I'm going to do,
we want the title and
description from useSite, oops,
no, not from, = useSiteMetadata.
Okay, so
what we're doing is in useSiteMetadata,
we're just grabbing that metadata object.
And then here we're able to just
destructure it and get only what we need,
so just the pieces that we're actually
gonna use come out of that data.
And then down here, I can reset this to
just use the pieces that we wanted to use.
>> Jason Lengstorf: So we've got our
title and description using the title and
description that we're loading
from our site's metadata.
>> Jason Lengstorf: And,
>> Jason Lengstorf: That's
got a new query in it, so
I'm gonna stop and restart the page.
We're working on improvements for
that in the Gatsby Core.
But at the moment, when you change your
GraphQL queries, a lot of times you're
gonna need to stop and restart the page
just to make sure that it picks those up.
And now you can see our Frontend Masters
Gatsby workshop is being loaded,
and also our description
is being loaded as well.
So with a combination of
GraphQL to get this data,
and then React Hooks to make it really
easy to access this data, we have a really
powerful solution for
tossing data around inside of our app.
This is a really nice workflow.
And the great thing about it is that as
your site scales, you don't have to go and
refactor that query in a bunch of places,
you're going to use site metadata.
You're like,
we added an author page, cool,
now it's available to the entire app.
So it's a really scalable way
to manage that data access.